What you need:
1. Laptop with terminal that supports X11 forwarding (XQuartz for Mac, MobaXterm for Windows)
2. Data collection platform

Setup:
1. The Pluto (bottom board) should be plugged into one of the USB 2.0 ports (grey port) on the Raspberry Pi (top board) using the USB A to micro USB cable
3. The USB C power cable must be plugged into the Phaser reciever (middle board) to power all three boards
4. The USB A cable coming from the motor controller must also be plugged into one of the USB 2.0 ports on the Pi
5. The horn aentenna must be screwed into the port next to the already occupied port on the Phaser receiver
6. After about a minute the Pi should be fully booted up and you should be able to connect to it's wifi hotspot "pluto" from your laptop. Password: "analogpluto"
7. Once connected, run the following command in the terminal to coonnect to the Pi: "ssh -X analog@10.42.0.1". Password: "analog"
8. The Pi has two repos downloaded onto it, "PhaserRadarLabs" has all the John Kraft labs associated with the Phaser and "MSD-SARSDR" has all the code needed to opperate the data collection platform
9. The GUI to control the track mounted platform can be started by executing "python3 main.py" in the terminal. NOTE: This GUI is being run on the Pi and not your laptop so make sure you maintain connection with the Pi otherwise your data collection will fail
10. Once in the GUI, you need to press "setup motors" and "setup radar" before you're able to collect any data. Once both of these setups are complete, completion messages will show up in the log box on the right. At this point you will know if steps 1-5 were completed correctly. If the motors fail to connect and you completed step 4 then try changing the number in the port path below the log box from 0 to 1. This port path can change if any extra devices are plugged into the Pi.

Now you can drive the motors and collect data using either of the two data collection profiles:
The first data collection profile will complete "steps" across the track while collecting data in between steps. the number of steps and the distance of each step can be adjusted in the GUI. There's also a wait time that can be adjusted which controls how long the radar should wait between transmissions for each step. This is important since we don't get confirmation from the motors once it's done moving and if the wait time is too low then the radar could try collecting more data while the platform is still moving. There's is a hard coded half second wait time after the data collection commands are sent for each step to ensure the motors don't start moving too quickly after transmission. This half second is likely more than enough time for any type of transmit/receive to complete but better safe than sorry.
The second data collection profile is continuous, so the radar will transmit and recieve while the motors are moving. A cross position collection will be done every 30mm which is hard coded in radar.py (line 256). NOTE: this code is not perfect. We tried setting it up such that the time to wait in between each data collection could be derived using the speed of the motors but we found that the data collection was finishing befor the platform had traversed the entire track, indicating that the lpatform is moving slower than we think it is. This may need some calibration to be done in the motor set up code to resolve this issue.
The number of pulses per cross position/step is also hard coded in radar.py (line 261)

The Kill button can be used to stop anymore commands from being sent to the motors and the radar. If this button is clicked during data collection, none of the data will be saved. This was added primarily to prevent accidentally running the platform off the track. However, if you drive the motors with 1 step, or you run the continuous data collection profile, then the motors will stop moving once they've gone the distance given in the "# of mm/step" entry box. For example, if you tell the motors to do one step of 10,000mm (10 meters) then the motors will not stop moving unless you unplug the power. So just be careful with this and make sure you have enough track to go the entire distance you're telling the motors to go.

The motors have only been calibrated once at the begining of the project so it may not hurt to recalibrate them again. This can be done by ajusting the "defaultStepSize" in motors.py (line 5). This is the number of steps the motor will complete to go 1mm. To calibrate it we told the motors to go 100mm and adjusted the "defaultStepSize" based on if the platorm was overshooting or undershooting the 100mm mark.

Once a data collection is completed, a message in the terminal (not the log box in the GUI) will be sent saying the name of the file for the data you just collected. It will look something like this "data_mat_2025-04-24_13-52-28.mat". This data can be offloaded from the Pi by running the following command in your local terminal "scp analog@10.42.0.1:/home/analog/MSD-SARSDR/data/\<file name\> /\<path to local destination\>/"
